# Search-in-the-Chain: Interactively Enhancing Large Language Models with Search for Knowledge-intensive Tasks

Shicheng Xu

CAS Key Laboratory of AI Security, Institute of Computing Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences

University of Chinese Academy of Sciences

Beijing, China

xushicheng21s@ict.ac.cn

Liang Pang*

CAS Key Laboratory of AI Security, Institute of Computing Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences

Beijing, China pangliang@ict.ac.cn

Huawei Shen

CAS Key Laboratory of AI Security, Institute of Computing Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences

Beijing, China

shenhuawei@ict.ac.cn

Xueqi Cheng

CAS Key Laboratory of AI Security,

Institute of Computing Technology,

Chinese Academy of Sciences

Beijing, China

cxq@ict.ac.cn

# ABSTRACT

Making the content generated by Large Language Model (LLM), accurate, credible and traceable is crucial, especially in complex knowledge-intensive tasks that require multi-step reasoning and each step needs knowledge to solve. Retrieval-augmented generation is good potential to solve this problem. However, where and how to introduce Information Retrieval (IR) to LLM is a big challenge. Previous work has the problems that wrong knowledge retrieved by IR misleads the LLM and interaction between IR and LLM breaks the reasoning chain of LLM. This paper proposes a novel framework named Search-in-the-Chain (SearChain) for the interaction between LLM and IR to solve the challenges. First, LLM generates the reasoning chain named Chain-of-Query (CoQ) where each node consists of an IR-oriented query-answer pair. Second, IR verifies the answer of each node of CoQ. It corrects the answer that is not consistent with the retrieved information when IR gives high confidence, which improves the credibility. Third, LLM can indicate its missing knowledge in CoQ and rely on IR to provide this knowledge to LLM. These operations improve the accuracy in terms of reasoning and knowledge. Finally, SearChain generates the reasoning process and marks references to supporting documents for each reasoning step, which improves traceability. Interaction with IR in SearChain forms a novel reasoning path based on a tree, which enables LLM to dynamically modify the direction of reasoning. Experiments show that SearChain outperforms state-of-the-art baselines on complex knowledge-intensive tasks including multi-hop Q&A, slot filling, fact checking, and long-form Q&A.


This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution International 4.0 License.

WWW '24, May 13-17, 2024, Singapore, Singapore

© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).

ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-0171-9/24/05.

https://doi.org/10.1145/3589334.3645363

Tat-Seng Chua

Sea-NExT Joint Lab, National

University of Singapore

Singapore

dcstcs@nus.edu.sg

# CCS CONCEPTS

Computing methodologies  $\rightarrow$  Natural language processing.

# KEYWORDS

Retrieval-augmented model, Large Language Models

# ACM Reference Format:

Shicheng Xu, Liang Pang, Huawei Shen, Xueqi Cheng, and Tat-Seng Chua. 2024. Search-in-the-Chain: Interactively Enhancing Large Language Models with Search for Knowledge-intensive Tasks. In Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2024 (WWW '24), May 13-17, 2024, Singapore, Singapore. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 13 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3589334.3645363

# 1 INTRODUCTION

Large Language Models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT have shown promising performance in various natural language processing tasks [2, 47]. However, for the complex knowledge-intensive tasks that require multi-step reasoning and each step needs knowledge to solve [23, 43, 49], many studies have shown that LLMs have trouble in: (1) compositional reasoning over multiple knowledge [24], (2) memorization of long-tail and real-time knowledge [13] and (3) avoiding hallucination that is inconsistent with the facts [1], which affects the accuracy and credibility of LLMs for complex knowledge-intensive tasks. Besides, context-only generation without any supporting evidence causes less traceability and makes people less trust in the LLM-generated content. Retrieval-augmented method has good potential to solve these problems because it combines the knowledge of the model with external knowledge bases [10, 12, 18].

However, where and how to introduce IR into LLM is not a trivial thing. There are three main challenges. C-1: Directly inserting IR into the reasoning process of LLM such as Self-Ask [24], LTM [48], React [42] and DSP [15] leads to breaking the reasoning chain of LLM. Because in these methods, LLM can only reason a local subquestion in each generation. C-2: When there is a conflict in the knowledge of IR and LLM, for the knowledge that the LLM has correctly memorized, it risks being misled by IR if IR retrieves the

Figure 1: Interaction between IR and LLM in SearChain. First, SearChain makes LLM plan a CoQ where each node is a query-answer pair. Then, IR interacts with each node of CoQ to perform verification and completion. If IR detects that a node needs to be corrected or provided with knowledge, it gives feedback to LLM and LLM re-generates a new CoQ, which is the new branch of the tree. This process is the node-identify Depth-first Search on a tree called Tree-of-Reasoning (the correct reasoning path is green). The final content includes the reasoning process and references to supporting documents.

wrong information. It is important to make sure that IR only provides the knowledge that LLM really needs. C-3: Previous methods cannot dynamically modify the reasoning direction.

In this paper, we propose a novel framework named Search-in-the-Chain (SearChain) to effectively combine LLM with IR to solve the above challenges (Figure 1). SearChain and previous methods both need multiple IR-LLM interaction rounds, but the former works at the chain level, while the latter only deals with a node. In each round, SearChain performs reasoning, verification, and completion. After the interaction, SearChain performs tracing to generate the final content. Specifically, in each round, first, LLM exploits in-context learning to construct a Chain-of-Query (CoQ), which is a reasoning chain to decompose and solve complex questions. Each node of the chain consists of an IR-oriented query, the answer generated by LLM for this query, and a flag indicating whether LLM needs additional knowledge. Different from previous methods in which LLM can only perform one-step reasoning (only a node) when interacting with IR, CoQ is a complete chain. This design avoids IR from breaking the reasoning chain (C-1). Second, IR interacts with each node of CoQ to perform verification and completion. In verification, IR verifies the answer of each node. In case when the LLM-generated answer is not consistent with the retrieved information and IR gives high confidence, IR gives feedback to LLM to help it correct the answer and re-generate the correct CoQ. In completion, IR determines whether the node has missing knowledge from the flag of the node and provides this knowledge to LLM to help it re-generate CoQ. LLM gradually generates the correct CoQ through multiple rounds of interaction with IR. The above design provides LLM with the knowledge it really needs to alleviate the misleading caused by IR to LLM (C-2), which improves accuracy. IR verifies and corrects the knowledge in the reasoning process of LLM based on external knowledge bases, which improves credibility. After the interaction, SearChain performs tracing to generate the reasoning

process and marks references to supporting documents for each reasoning step, which is used as the final content returned to the user. This improves the traceability of knowledge in the generated content. Interaction with IR in SearChain transforms the reasoning path from a chain to node-identify Depth-first Search on a tree called Tree-of-Reasoning (ToR). CoQ generation can be seen as a part of Depth-first Search and IR can identify the nodes that need more information  $(C - 3)$ . This enables LLM to dynamically modify the reasoning direction. This paper's main contributions are:

(1) We highlight the challenges in introducing IR into LLM from the perspectives of reasoning and knowledge.  
(2) SearChain not only improves the knowledge-reasoning ability of LLM but also uses IR to identify and give the knowledge that LLM really needs. Besides, SearChain can mark references to supporting documents for the knowledge involved in the generated content.  
(3) Interaction with IR in SearChain forms a novel reasoning path: node-identify Depth-first Search on a tree, which enables LLM to dynamically modify the direction of reasoning.  
(4) Experiment shows that SearChain outperforms state-of-the-art baselines on complex knowledge-intensive tasks including multihop Q&A, slot filling, fact checking and long-form Q&A. Code is released at https://github.com/xsc1234/Search-in-the-Chain.

# 2 RELATED WORK

# 2.1 Chain-of-Thought Prompting

Chain-of-thought [36] proposes the method that uses few-shot examples to enable LLM to give intermediate reasoning results to improve the reasoning ability. [16] uses "Let's do it step by step" as prompt to achieve promising zero-shot performance. Auto-CoT exploits language models to automatically construct few-shot learning examples for CoT [45]. There are also many studies that cover other aspects of CoT such as self-consistency [35], usage of small and

medium size models [44] and selection [8]. Besides, there are studies that iteratively use LLM to decompose complex questions and answer sub-questions step by step. These methods include Least-to-Most [48], Dynamic Least-to-Most [5], Self-Ask [24] and DSP [15]. Chain-of-Query of our method is also inspired by CoT. However, previous studies focus on giving intermediate reasoning results or decomposing complex questions and answering sub-questions step by step. They focus on how to solve local sub-questions while ignoring the global planning of the reasoning chain. Although AgentGPT and PS [34] first plan each sub-question and then solve them, they are not suitable for scenarios where the next sub-question needs the answer of the previous sub-questions to generate, which is common for complex knowledge-intensive tasks (multi-hop QA). CoQ of our method makes LLM construct a global reasoning chain where each node is a query-answer pair. This design not only improves the knowledge-reasoning ability but also provides the interface for IR to be deeply involved in the reasoning process of LLM.

# 2.2 Retrieval-augmented Language Models

Many studies have shown that retrieval-augmented methods get promising performance in various natural language tasks such as open-domain question answering [4, 10, 12, 18, 21, 37, 39], language modeling [3, 20, 22] and enhancing the factuality [25]. Recently, some studies enable LLM to interact with IR via in-context learning [15, 24, 28, 42]. In these methods, the interaction between IR and LLM makes the reasoning of LLM not continuous. LLM can only perform one-step reasoning at each inference. Our method makes LLM generate a global reasoning chain called Chain-of-Query at each inference, which introduces stronger logical relationship between each reasoning step. Besides, previous methods can only provide information to the LLM but cannot assist LLM in correcting erroneous information or avoid the negative effect of IR on LLM, which makes the reasoning of LLM still in a one-dimensional chain. Our method makes IR interact with each node of the chain. IR only provides LLM with its missing knowledge and corrects the answers that are not consistent with the retrieved information when IR is confident enough. This mitigates the negative effect of IR on LLM and transforms the reasoning path from chain to node-identify Depth First Search on a tree to enable LLM to dynamically modify the reasoning direction.

# 3 OUR METHOD

This section introduces the design of Search-in-the-Chain (SearChain). In SearChain, IR and LLM conduct multiple rounds of interaction. In each round, first, LLM acts as the commander to plan the global reasoning chain for the complex input questions called Chain-of-Query (CoQ). Each node of the CoQ consists of an IR-oriented query, the answer for this query, and a flag indicating whether LLM needs additional knowledge. Then, IR interacts with each node of CoQ and performs the completion and verification to only provide LLM with missing knowledge and correct the wrong answers to alleviate the misleading. LLM re-generates new CoQ based on feedback from IR. Multiple rounds of interaction help LLM gradually generate the correct CoQ, which improves accuracy and credibility. Finally, SearChain performs tracing to generate the whole reasoning process and marks references to supporting documents for each

Figure 2: Comparison with previous methods.

reasoning step, which is used as the final content returned to the user. This improves the traceability of generated content. Interaction with IR in SearChain transforms the reasoning path from a chain to node-identify Depth-first Search on a tree called Tree-of-Reasoning (ToR), which enables LLM to dynamically modify the reasoning direction.

# 3.1 Comparison with Previous Methods

Figure 2 shows the difference between our method and previous retrieval-augmented methods (Self-Ask [24], React [42], DSP [15], etc.) in solving complex knowledge-intensive questions.

(1) Local vs. Global. For a complex question that needs multi-step reasoning, previous methods directly insert IR into the multi-step reasoning process, causing LLM can only reason a local subquestion such as node  $\mathbb{A}$  in each generation. This breaks the reasoning chain of LLM. Our method proposes Chain-of-Query to provide the interactive interface for IR on the premise of ensuring the coherence of reasoning chain (plans a global chain for question  $Q$  such as  $\mathbb{A} \to \mathbb{B} \to \mathbb{C} \to \mathbb{D}$  in each generation). (solves C-1)  
(2) Directly Provide vs. Verify and Complete. Previous methods directly provide the retrieved information to the LLM. When the retrieved information is incorrect, the LLM runs the risk of being misled. In our method, IR only corrects inconsistent information in Chain-of-Query when IR is confident enough, and provides the information that LLM does not know via flags on Chain-of-Query, which mitigates the negative effect of IR on LLM. (solves C-2)  
(3) Chain vs. Tree. Previous methods cannot modify the reasoning direction in time as necessary. Our method transforms the reasoning path from a chain to node-identify Depth-first Search on a tree by introducing the verification and completion from IR, which enables LLM to dynamically modify the direction of reasoning. (solves C-3)

Construct a global reasoning chain for this complex [Question]: Where do Greyhound buses that are in the birthplace of Spirit If...s performer leave from? You should generate a query to the search engine based on what you already know at each step of the reasoning chain, starting with [Query]. If you know the answer for [Query], generate it starting with [Answer]. You can try to generate the final answer for the [Question] by referring to the [Query]-[Answer] pairs, starting with [Final Content]. If you don't know the answer, generate a query to search engine based on what you already know and do not know, starting with [Unsolved Query]. For example: [Question]: Where do Greyhound buses that are in the birthplace of Spirit If...s performer leave from? [Query 1]: Who is the performer of Spirit If...? If you don't know the answer: [Unsolved Query]: Who is the performer of Spirit If...? If you know the answer: [Answer 1]: The performer of Spirit If... is Kevin Drew. [Query 2]: Where was Kevin Drew born? If you don't know the answer: [Unsolved Query]: Where was Kevin Drew born? If you know the answer: [Answer 2]: Toronto. [Query 3]: Where do greyhound buses in Toronto leave from? If you don't know the answer: [Unsolved Query]: Where do greyhound buses in Toronto leave from? If you know the answer: [Answer 3]: Toronto Coach Terminal. [Final Content]: The performer of Spirit If... is Kevin Drew [1]. Kevin Drew was born in Toronto [2]. Greyhound buses in Toronto leave from Toronto Coach Terminal [3]. So the final answer is Toronto Coach Terminal.

Figure 3: Prompt to make LLM generate Chain-of-Query.

# 3.2 Chain-of-Query Generation

In SearChain, we use in-context learning [36] to prompt large language model to construct a global reasoning chain for complex question  $Q$  named Chain-of-Query (CoQ):

$$
\mathrm {C o Q} = \left(q _ {1}, a _ {1}\right)\rightarrow \left(q _ {2}, a _ {2}\right)\rightarrow \dots \rightarrow \left(q _ {n}, a _ {n}\right), \tag {1}
$$

which is the branch of Tree-of-Reasoning. Each node  $(q_{i},a_{i})$  of CoQ consists of an IR-oriented query  $q_{i}$  and its answer  $a_{i}$ .  $q_{1}\ldots q_{n}$  are the sub-questions that need to be solved in the reasoning process of solving  $Q$ . CoQ generation is applied to each round of interaction between LLM and IR. In the first round, the prompt used to make LLM generate CoQ is shown in Figure 3. The prompt with "Construct a global reasoning chain" makes LLM know that the main task is to generate a global reasoning chain in each generation. "Global" means that LLM needs to plan a complete reasoning chain for the complex question, rather than answer the question directly or only solve "local" sub-questions (comparison shown in Figure 2). At each node of the chain, LLM focuses on generating the IR-oriented query and gives the answer if LLM knows. If LLM does not know the answer, it should mark the query with "[Unsolved Query]", which is a flag indicating the missing of knowledge. In subsequent rounds, when a node needs IR to correct or provide missing knowledge, LLM generates a new CoQ according to the feedback of IR to dynamically modify the reasoning direction. The design for this scenario will be introduced in Section 3.3. The generation of CoQ is a complete Depth-first Search for  $Q$ , which avoids IR from breaking the reasoning chain of LLM. Experiments (Section 4.3.3) also show that for the difficult sub-question, CoQ enables LLM to

Algorithm 1: Description of the Interaction with IR.  
Initialize: Processed queries:  $M = \text{null}$ ; Correct reasoning path:  $R = \text{null}$ ; Interaction rounds:  $r = 0$ ; Feedback:  $F = \text{null}$ ; ToR:  $T = Q$ ;  
Function IR(qi, ai):  
di = Retrieve(qi); // Retrieve Top-1 document di for qi.  
g, f = Reader(qi, di);  
// Extract answer g from di and give confidence f.  
if qi is Unsolved Query then // Completion.  
R.add(qi, g, di); // Record the correct node.  
return PromptForComplete(qi, g, di);  
if f > θ and NotEqual(g, ai) then // Verification.  
R.add(qi, g, di); // Record the correct node.  
return PromptForVerify(qi, g, di);  
R.add(qi, ai, di); return "Pass";  
Function Traverse(CoQ):  
foreach (qi, ai) in CoQ do  
if not DuplicateQuery(qi, M) then // If qi has not been processed.  
F = IR(qi, ai); M.add(qi);  
if not F == "Pass" then return F;  
return "Finish";  
Function Main(Q,F):  
while not (F == "Finish" or r > rmax) do  
CoQ = ChainGenerate(Q, F); // LLM generate the new Chain-of-Query CoQ.  
T.AddChild(CoQ); // Add the new branch to T.  
F = Traverse(CoQ); // Interact with IR.  
r = r + 1; // Update the number of interaction rounds r.  
return Tracing(T, R)

solve it by more reasoning steps such as rewriting or further decomposing the sub-question while baselines tend to stop reasoning. It is because baselines focus on solving current local sub-questions while ignoring the global planning of the reasoning chain. The global perspective in CoQ makes LLM try more to explore possible answers when facing intermediate difficulties.

# 3.3 Interaction with Information Retrieval

In each round of interaction, LLM passes the generated CoQ to IR. IR verifies and completes the information for each node  $(q_{i},a_{i})$  of CoQ and feeds back to LLM to help it generate more correct CoQ as the new branch of ToR (Tree-of-Reasoning). Besides, IR records the corresponding retrieved documents for each node of CoQ as its supporting documents, which enhances the traceability of LLM-generated content. The description of interaction is shown in Algorithm 1. IR interacts with each node  $(q_{i},a_{i})$  of CoQ, retrieves the Top-1 document  $d_{i}$  for  $q_{i}$  as the supporting document, and judges whether to verify or complete it according to the type of  $q_{i}$ . When all the queries of CoQ do not need to be corrected or completed, or the maximum number of interaction rounds is reached,

the interaction ends. SearChain traces back the correct reasoning path of ToR and refers to each node of the path to generate the final content with marked references to supporting documents for knowledge of each node.

Verification. Verification aims to guarantee the correctness of  $a_i$  in each node  $(q_i, a_i)$  of CoQ based on the external knowledge base, which improves the accuracy and credibility of generated content. Specifically, given the retrieved Top-1 document  $d_i$  for  $q_i$ , a Reader [14] that has been trained on open-domain QA datasets [14] is used to extract the answer  $g$  for  $q_i$  from  $d_i$  with its confidence  $f$  ( $f$  is a predicted value that measures whether  $g$  can answer  $q_i$ ):

$$
s = \arg \max  (\operatorname {s o f t m a x} (\mathbf {H w} _ {s})), e = \arg \max  (\operatorname {s o f t m a x} (\mathbf {H w} _ {e})),
$$

$$
g = d _ {i} [ s: e ], f = \mathbf {H} _ {[ C L S ]} \mathbf {w} _ {f}, (\mathbf {w} _ {s}, \mathbf {w} _ {t}, \mathbf {w} _ {f} \in \mathbb {R} ^ {E}),
$$

where  $\mathbf{H} \in \mathbb{R}^{L \times E}$  is the sequence of last hidden states for the input text "[CLS]  $q_i[\mathrm{SEP}]d_i$ ",  $L$  is the length and  $E$  is hidden dimension.  $\mathbf{H}_{[\mathrm{CLS}]}$  is the last hidden state of [CLS] token. Then, SearChain judges whether the answer  $a_i$  given by LLM is consistent with the retrieved information according to (1) whether  $g$  appears in  $a_i$  (for short-form generation tasks such as multi-hop QA and slot filling) or (2) whether ROUGE [19] between  $a_i$  and  $d_i$  is greater than the threshold  $\alpha$  (for long and free-form generation tasks such as ELI5 [7]). If  $a_i$  is not consistent with retrieved information and the Reader is confident enough ( $f > \theta$ ,  $\theta$  is a threshold to alleviate the negative effect of IR on LLM), a prompt is constructed to help LLM correct the answer  $a_i$ . The template of the prompt is: "Accorating to the Reference, the answer for  $q_i$  should be  $g$ , you can change your answer and continue constructing the reasoning chain for [Question]: Q. Reference:  $d_i$ ." This round is over. LLM receives the feedback of IR, gives the new answer  $a_i'$  for  $q$ , and generates a new CoQ with  $(q_i, a_i')$  as the root node, which is the new branch of ToR.

Completion. Completion aims to provide LLM with missing knowledge in nodes of CoQ, which improves the accuracy of generated content. Specifically, in CoQ generation (Section 3.2), LLM marks "[Unsolved Query]" for the unsolvable query. For the unsolvable query  $q_{i}^{*}$ , IR extracts the answer  $g^{*}$  from retrieved document  $d_{i}^{*}$  as described in Verification. Regardless of whether  $f$  is greater than the threshold  $\theta$ ,  $g^{*}$  and  $d_{i}^{*}$  will be fed back to the LLM in the form of a prompt because the LLM cannot solve  $q_{i}^{*}$ . The template of the prompt is: "According to the Reference, the answer for  $q_{i}^{*}$  should be  $g^{*}$ , you can give your answer and continue constructing the reasoning chain for [Question]: Q. Reference:  $d_{i}^{*}$ ." This round is over. LLM receives the feedback, gives the answer  $a_{i}^{*}$  to solve the query  $q_{i}^{*}$  and generates a new CoQ with  $(q_{i}^{*}, a_{i}^{*})$  as the root node, which is the new branch of ToR.

Tracing. Tracing aims to generate the reasoning process and mark references to supporting documents for each reasoning step, which is used as the final content returned to the user. This improves the traceability of each knowledge in the generated content. Specifically, SearChain records the documents retrieved for each node on the correct reasoning path of Tree-of-Reasoning as the supporting documents. SearChain prompts LLM to generate the final content by referring to nodes on the correct path and marking references to the supporting documents for the corresponding subfragments of the generated content (final content of Figure 1). The

prompt is "You can try to generate the final answer for the [Question] by referring to the [Query]-[Answer] pairs, starting with [Final Content]. [Query 1]:  $q_{1}$ . [Answer 1]:  $a_{1} \ldots$  [Query  $m$ ]:  $q_{m}$ . [Answer  $m$ ]:  $a_{m}$ ". This design enables the user to acquire the related documents of the knowledge involved in each step of reasoning. We believe that it is a promising task to mark references to supporting documents on sub-fragments of complex content generated by LLM. Our approach provides a novel and effective approach to solve this task by retrieving supporting documents for each sub-questions involved in the reasoning process of LLM without any supervised data (texts with citation annotations) and training of the LLM.

Node-identify Depth-first Search. Compared with previous retrieval-augmented methods, interaction with IR in SearChain forms a novel reasoning path: node-identify Depth-first Search on a tree. In each generation, LLM generates a CoQ to perform continuous reasoning on complex questions until the final answer is generated or an unsolvable sub-question is encountered. This can be seen as a part of Depth-first Search (DFS). However, different from traditional DFS algorithm [31], "node-identify" in SearChain means that when a search in one direction is terminated, SearChain does not return to its parent node, but dynamically identifies the node that needs to be corrected or completed via verification and completion in IR and re-generates a new CoQ started with this node. The interaction process between IR and LLM in SearChain is the process of constructing a tree using node-identify DFS, which enables LLM to dynamically modify the reasoning direction.

# 4 EXPERIMENTS

# 4.1 Experimental Setup

4.1.1 Datasets and Evaluation Metric. We select four classic complex knowledge-intensive tasks including multi-hop question-answering (HotpotQA (HoPo) [40], Musique (MQ) [33], WikiMulti-HopQA (WQA) [11] and StrategyQA (SQA) [9]), slot filling (zsRE [17], T-REx [6]), fact checking (FEVER [32]) and long-form question-answering (ELI5 [7]). These tasks require LLM to perform multistep reasoning on complex questions, and each step requires corresponding knowledge to solve. As for the evaluation metrics, for ELI5 whose ground truth is long and free-form, we use ROUGE-L [19] as the metric. For other tasks, we use whether the ground truth answer is contained within the generated answer (i.e., coverage [26]) as the metric. Following DSP [15] and Self-Ask [24], we evaluate the model on full development datasets of MQ and HoPo, BIG-bench [29] datasets on SQA and subsets of WQA, zsRE, T-REx, FEVER and ELI5 (each subset has 1.2k questions).

4.1.2 Baselines. Our baselines can be divided into two categories, one is about improving the reasoning ability of LLM on complex tasks (CoT [36], CoT-SC [35], Auto-CoT [45], Recite-and-answer [30] and Least-to-Most [48]), and the other is not only introducing IR to LLM but also improving the reasoning ability (Direct<sup>1</sup>, Self-Ask [24], ToolFormer<sup>2</sup> [28], React [42], DSP [15], Verify-and-Edit (combined with CoT-SC) [46] and Tree-of-Thought [41]). AgentGPT and PS [34] use Plan-and-Solve paradigm, we also reproduce this as one of the baselines.

Table 1: Performance of SearChain and baselines on complex knowledge-intensive tasks. Bold denotes the best result in different settings. FC: Fact Checking, LFQA: Long-Form QA. Metric for LFQA: ROUGE-L. Metric for others: cover-EM.  

<table><tr><td rowspan="2"></td><td colspan="4">Muti-Hop QA</td><td colspan="2">Slot Filling</td><td>FC</td><td>LFQA</td></tr><tr><td>HoPo</td><td>MQ</td><td>WQA</td><td>SQA</td><td>zsRE</td><td>T-REx</td><td>FEV.</td><td>ELI5</td></tr><tr><td colspan="9">Without Information Retrieval</td></tr><tr><td>Direct Prompting</td><td>31.95</td><td>5.91</td><td>25.82</td><td>66.25</td><td>22.75</td><td>43.85</td><td>73.45</td><td>21.90</td></tr><tr><td>Auto-CoT</td><td>33.53</td><td>10.55</td><td>29.15</td><td>65.40</td><td>21.30</td><td>43.98</td><td>76.61</td><td>21.55</td></tr><tr><td>CoT</td><td>35.04</td><td>9.46</td><td>30.41</td><td>65.83</td><td>22.36</td><td>44.51</td><td>76.98</td><td>21.79</td></tr><tr><td>CoT-SC</td><td>36.85</td><td>10.02</td><td>32.68</td><td>70.84</td><td>24.74</td><td>46.06</td><td>77.15</td><td>22.05</td></tr><tr><td>Recite-and-answer</td><td>36.49</td><td>10.97</td><td>32.53</td><td>70.47</td><td>24.98</td><td>46.14</td><td>77.35</td><td>22.10</td></tr><tr><td>Self-Ask w/o IR</td><td>33.95</td><td>11.10</td><td>35.65</td><td>65.45</td><td>20.16</td><td>44.71</td><td>75.31</td><td>21.73</td></tr><tr><td>Least-to-Most</td><td>34.05</td><td>11.45</td><td>32.88</td><td>65.78</td><td>21.86</td><td>44.98</td><td>75.98</td><td>21.95</td></tr><tr><td>Plan-and-Solve</td><td>36.33</td><td>12.95</td><td>35.68</td><td>73.21</td><td>25.15</td><td>47.58</td><td>77.08</td><td>22.23</td></tr><tr><td>SearChain w/o IR</td><td>38.36</td><td>13.61</td><td>40.49</td><td>75.62</td><td>30.14</td><td>52.69</td><td>77.06</td><td>22.54</td></tr><tr><td colspan="9">Interaction with Information Retrieval</td></tr><tr><td>Direct Retrieval</td><td>34.09</td><td>10.22</td><td>30.01</td><td>66.78</td><td>52.29</td><td>59.28</td><td>78.25</td><td>23.40</td></tr><tr><td>ToolFormer</td><td>36.75</td><td>12.98</td><td>35.49</td><td>67.02</td><td>51.35</td><td>59.17</td><td>80.79</td><td>23.05</td></tr><tr><td>Self-Ask</td><td>40.05</td><td>14.28</td><td>39.58</td><td>67.65</td><td>50.51</td><td>59.12</td><td>79.41</td><td>23.25</td></tr><tr><td>Plan-and-Solve w/ IR</td><td>41.65</td><td>15.07</td><td>42.05</td><td>74.58</td><td>52.15</td><td>60.03</td><td>81.04</td><td>24.56</td></tr><tr><td>React → CoT-SC</td><td>43.15</td><td>15.49</td><td>40.36</td><td>70.43</td><td>53.27</td><td>60.42</td><td>80.59</td><td>24.05</td></tr><tr><td>Verify-and-Edit</td><td>44.03</td><td>15.57</td><td>40.83</td><td>71.09</td><td>53.95</td><td>61.10</td><td>80.67</td><td>23.80</td></tr><tr><td>Tree-of-Thought w/ IR</td><td>50.65</td><td>15.61</td><td>42.49</td><td>72.55</td><td>54.88</td><td>62.40</td><td>81.03</td><td>24.20</td></tr><tr><td>DSP</td><td>51.97</td><td>15.83</td><td>43.52</td><td>72.41</td><td>54.35</td><td>61.32</td><td>80.65</td><td>23.46</td></tr><tr><td>SearChain</td><td>56.91</td><td>17.07</td><td>46.27</td><td>76.95</td><td>57.29</td><td>65.07</td><td>81.15</td><td>25.57</td></tr><tr><td>- w/o Verification</td><td>46.11</td><td>14.70</td><td>42.67</td><td>75.98</td><td>43.58</td><td>55.46</td><td>78.79</td><td>22.98</td></tr><tr><td>- w/o Completion</td><td>53.05</td><td>15.86</td><td>43.64</td><td>76.53</td><td>45.78</td><td>56.03</td><td>80.03</td><td>25.02</td></tr></table>

4.1.3 Implementation. The large language model we used is gpt-3.5-turbo provided from API of OpenAI $^3$  and the retrieval model we used is ColBERTv2 [27] (following DSP). IR model infers on one Tesla V100 GPU. For HotpotQA, we use Wikipedia 2017 as the corpus, which is provided by [40] in full-wiki setting. For the other datasets, we use the large-scale passage collection built on Wikipedia as the corpus [14, 38]. Baselines with information retrieval are in the same setting as SearChain. We reproduce all baselines on gpt-3.5-turbo following the settings in their papers. The maximum number of interaction rounds  $r_{max}$  is 5. The thresholds  $\alpha$  and  $\theta$  are set as 0.35 and 1.5 respectively. As for the selection of confidence threshold  $(\theta)$ , we initialize the initial value of the confidence threshold (1.0) based on prior knowledge and gradually increase the value with a step size of 0.1. We validate the F1-score on the mixed open-domain QA datasets (NQ, TriviaQA, WebQ, and TREC) after each value change. We find that when the confidence threshold is 1.5, the highest F1-score can be achieved so we set the confidence threshold as 1.5. As for the selection of ROUGE threshold  $(\alpha)$ , we determine this value by observing the ROUGE relationship between the generated text and the ground truth in the few examples in in-context learning. Our further experiments show that when the value range of ROUGE threshold is between 0.3 and 0.5, the performance change on ELI5 is not obvious. Details of prompts and experiments are introduced in Section A.3 of Appendix.

# 4.2 Main Results

Performance on knowledge-intensive tasks is shown in Table 1.

(1) Effect of Chain-of-Query. CoQ is the reasoning chain for complex questions in SearChain. We compare it with recent competitive baselines in the setting without IR. SearChain w/o IR outperforms all baselines based on CoT (CoT, Auto-CoT, CoT-SC and Recite-and-answer), which indicates that focusing on constructing a global reasoning chain consisting of sub-questions is better than just giving intermediate reasoning results. SearChain w/o IR outperforms Self-Ask w/o IR and Least-to-Most, which indicates that it is more effective to focus on constructing a global reasoning chain at each inference (global perspective) than generating and answering sub-questions step by step (local perspective).

(2) Effect of interaction with IR. In the setting with interaction with IR, SearChain again outperforms all the baselines. The paradigm of first generating global CoQ, and then IR interacting with each node of CoQ ensures the coherence of LLM reasoning. This solves the problem in Self-Ask, DSP and React. Besides, SearChain decouples the knowledge of LLM and IR. IR judges whether to provide information to LLM according to the confidence and the flag of the node on CoQ, which effectively alleviates misleading LLM. Last but not least, baselines reason in the one-dimensional chain. They cannot dynamically modify the reasoning direction. Interaction with IR in SearChain transforms the reasoning path from a chain to node-identify Depth-first Search on a tree, which enables LLM to dynamically modify the reasoning direction.

Table 2: Distribution of knowledge sources.  

<table><tr><td>Knowledge Src.</td><td>HoPo</td><td>MQ</td><td>WQA</td><td>SQA</td></tr><tr><td>LLM</td><td>74.56%</td><td>78.83%</td><td>75.83%</td><td>94.98%</td></tr><tr><td>Corrected by IR</td><td>20.94%</td><td>14.60%</td><td>18.96%</td><td>2.78%</td></tr><tr><td>Completed by IR</td><td>4.50%</td><td>6.57%</td><td>5.21%</td><td>2.24%</td></tr></table>

Table 3: Positive and negative effects of IR on LLM.  
(a) Accuracy on  $\mathbb{S}_{IR}$  and  $\mathbb{S}$  (positive effect  $\uparrow$ ).  

<table><tr><td></td><td>HoPo</td><td>MQ</td><td>WQA</td><td>SQA</td></tr><tr><td>w/o IR ($)</td><td>38.36</td><td>13.61</td><td>40.49</td><td>75.62</td></tr><tr><td>w/o IR (SIR)</td><td>31.38</td><td>10.20</td><td>32.60</td><td>68.96</td></tr><tr><td>w IR (SIR)</td><td>60.86</td><td>18.49</td><td>50.52</td><td>78.42</td></tr></table>

(b) Percentage that IR misleads LLM (negative effect  $\downarrow$  

<table><tr><td></td><td>HoPo</td><td>MQ</td><td>WQA</td><td>SQA</td></tr><tr><td>Self-Ask</td><td>15.76</td><td>14.32</td><td>25.76</td><td>10.29</td></tr><tr><td>React</td><td>17.68</td><td>15.22</td><td>25.99</td><td>10.03</td></tr><tr><td>Plan-and-Solve w/ IR</td><td>16.42</td><td>15.25</td><td>22.31</td><td>7.59</td></tr><tr><td>Verify-and-Edit</td><td>9.78</td><td>10.75</td><td>16.44</td><td>6.52</td></tr><tr><td>Tree-of-Thought w/ IR</td><td>12.07</td><td>13.25</td><td>20.52</td><td>8.46</td></tr><tr><td>DSP</td><td>14.72</td><td>14.03</td><td>24.31</td><td>9.22</td></tr><tr><td>SearChain</td><td>6.33</td><td>6.50</td><td>12.71</td><td>5.31</td></tr></table>

# 4.3 Analysis

In this section, we discuss and demonstrate the advantages of SearChain compared to baselines in detail. First, we analyze the source of the knowledge of SearChain in solving complex questions. Second, while we analyze the positive effect of IR on LLM in solving difficult questions, we also demonstrate that our method can better mitigate the negative effect of IR on LLM. Third, we show the advantages of SearChain compared to baselines in terms of reasoning and tracing capabilities. Last but not least, we perform efficiency analysis to show our method significantly improves task performance with no significant increase in time consumption.

4.3.1 Knowledge Decoupling. We analyze the knowledge sources on the four multi-hop QA datasets. Specifically, we classify knowledge sources into three categories: (1) knowledge of LLM, (2) knowledge that corrected by IR in verification, and (3) knowledge that LLM does not know and is provided by IR in completion. We use node of ToR as the statistical granularity to calculate the percentage of nodes from these three sources in the total nodes respectively. The experimental results are shown in Table 2. It is worth noting that even though most of the knowledge comes from LLM, this knowledge is also verified by IR. IR only corrects the inconsistent answer given by LLM when it is confident enough and provides LLM with the missing knowledge, which alleviates the negative effect of IR on LLM and improves the utilization of retrieved information. On StrategyQA, LLM has memorized most knowledge that IR can retrieve, so IR provides less knowledge than other datasets.

Table 4: Number of reasoning steps. SearChain tries more for unsolvable sub-questions to achieve better accuracy.  

<table><tr><td></td><td>2-hop</td><td>3-hop</td><td>4-hop</td><td>Accuracy</td></tr><tr><td>CoT</td><td>2.25</td><td>2.23</td><td>2.19</td><td>9.46</td></tr><tr><td>Self-Ask w/o IR</td><td>2.04</td><td>2.21</td><td>2.15</td><td>11.10</td></tr><tr><td>Least-to-Most</td><td>2.52</td><td>2.68</td><td>2.70</td><td>11.45</td></tr><tr><td>SearChain w/o IR</td><td>4.16</td><td>4.66</td><td>5.06</td><td>13.61</td></tr></table>

Who founded what Robert J Chassell is a member of?

CoT

It is not clear what entity Robert J Chassell is a member of. The question cannot be answered.

Self-Ask w/o Retrieval

Follow up: Who is Robert J Chassell?

Intermediate answer: Robert J Chassell is a programmer and author.

Follow up: What organization is Robert J Chassell a member of?

Intermediate answer: The organization that Robert J Chassell is a member of is not specified.

SearChain w/o Retrieval

[Query 1]: What is Robert J Chassell a member of?

[Answer 1]: There is no information about what organization or group Robert J Chassell is a member of.

[Query 2]: Can we find any information about Robert J Chassell's affiliations or associations?

[Answer 2]: Yes, Robert J Chassell is identified as a member of the Free Software Foundation.

[Query 3]: Who founded the Free Software Foundation?

[Answer 3]: The Free Software Foundation was founded by Richard Stallman.

[Final Content]: Richard Stallman founded the Free Software Foundation [3], which Robert J Chassell is

a member of [2]. So the final answer is Richard Stallman.

Figure 4: Case study of the difference between SearChain and baselines for unsolvable sub-questions.

4.3.2 Positive and Negative Effects of IR on LLM. (1) Positive. In SearChain, IR can identify the trouble of LLM and effectively help LLM to correct the answers and acquire missing knowledge. We select the questions  $(\mathbb{S}_{IR})$  that IR helps to correct or provide knowledge from the datasets used in Table 1 ( $\mathbb{S}$ ) and evaluate the accuracy of SearChain on  $\mathbb{S}_{IR}$ . We also evaluate the accuracy of SearChain w/o IR on  $\mathbb{S}_{IR}$ . The results in Table 3(a) show that w/o IR performs worse on  $\mathbb{S}_{IR}$  than on  $\mathbb{S}$ , which indicates that LLM does have trouble with the questions that require IR help. w/ IR performs better on  $\mathbb{S}_{IR}$ , which indicates that IR effectively identifies and solves the trouble of LLM. (2) Negative. Section 1 points out the risk of IR misleading LLM when there is a conflict in the knowledge of IR and LLM. We select the questions  $(\mathbb{S}_t)$  that LLM can give the correct answers to and count the percentage that LLM gives incorrect answers after adding IR on  $\mathbb{S}_t$ . Table 3(b) shows SearChain effectively mitigates the negative effect of IR on LLM. SearChain uses the confidence of IR and the information of CoQ to judge whether to correct LLM or provide LLM with its missing knowledge.

4.3.3 CoQ vs Baselines in Reasoning. CoQ performs better on reasoning complex questions than the baselines. In addition to Table 1, we further analyze the reasoning ability from two aspects:

(1) Number of Reasoning Steps. We analyze the number of reasoning steps in different methods in the setting without IR. We conduct the experiment on Musique because Musique has more complex questions. Table 4 shows the average number of reasoning steps on questions with different hops. Our method has more reasoning steps, and the number of reasoning steps increases with the hops of the question. This shows that our method has a better perception of the complexity of the questions.

<table><tr><td colspan="2">What team did the recipient of the 2007 Brownlow Medal play for?</td><td colspan="2">What kind of dinosaur does Raymond Ochoa voice in the Pixar film &quot;The Good Dinosaur&quot;?</td><td colspan="2">In what London botanical garden can you find the fungus described by Elise Maud Wakefield as &quot;Lepiota&quot;?</td></tr><tr><td>SearChain
Jimmy Bartel was the recipient of the 2007 Brown-low Medal [1] and played Australian rules football professionally [2]. He played for the Geelong Football Club. He won the medal by polling twenty-nine votes during the 2007 AFL season [1]. Is there anything else you would like to know about this topic?
[1]: ... Jimmy Bartel won the medal during the 2007 AFL season ... 
[2]: ... Jimmy Bartel is a former Australian rules footballer plays for the Geelong Football Club ...</td><td>New Bing
The recipient of the 2007 Brownlow Medal was Jimmy Bartel who played for the Geelong Football Club. He won the medal by polling twenty-nine votes during the 2007 AFL season [1]. Is there anything else you would like to know about this topic?
[1]: ... Jimmy Bartel won the medal by polling twenty-nine votes during the 2007 AFL season ...</td><td>SearChain
Raymond Ochoa is an American child actor and voice actor [1]. He has played various roles in movies including Arlo in &quot;The Good Dinosaur&quot; [2]. Arlo is an Apatosaurus [3]. So the final answer is Apatosaurus.
[1]: Raymond Ochoa is an American child actor and voice actor ... 
[2]:Raymond Ochoa ... played, Arlo, in the Pixar film &quot;The Good Dinosaur&quot; ... 
[3] ... timid Apato-saurus named Arlo (Ochoa) ...</td><td>New Bing
Raymond Ochoa voices the character of Arlo, an Apatosaurus in the Pixar film &quot;The Good Dinosaur&quot; [1]
[1]:Amazon.com: The Good Dinosaur : Raymond Ochoa)</td><td>SearChain
Elise Maud Wakefield was an English mycologist and plant pathologist [1]. &quot;Lepiota&quot; is a genus of fungi [2]. Kew Gardens is known for its fungi collection [3], such as &quot;Lepiota viridigleba&quot; [4]. So the final answer is Kew Gardens.
[1]: ... Elsie Maud Wakefield, was an English mycologist and plant pathologist... 
[2]: ... Lepiota viridigleba is a species of sequestrate fungus in the family Agaricaceae ... 
[3] ... Kew Gardens is a botanical garden in southwest London that houses the &quot;largest and most diverse botanical and mycological collections in the world&quot;. 
[4] ... The collection of fungi at Kew Gardens includes species such as ... &quot;Lepiota viridigleba&quot; ...</td><td>New Bing
I&#x27;m sorry, but I couldn&#x27;t find any information about a fungus described by Elise Maud Wakefield as &quot;Lepiota&quot; in a London botanical garden. I did find that Elsie Maud Wakefield was a mycologist at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew from 1910 to 1951 and was a specialist in Basidiomycetes and an international authority on Aphyllophorales [1,2].
[1]: ... Elsie Maud Wakefield, was an English mycologist and plant pathologist... 
[2]: ... Lepiota viridigleba is a species of sequestrate fungus in the family Agaricaceae ... 
[3] ... Kew Gardens is a botanical garden in southwest London that houses the &quot;largest and most diverse botanical and mycological collections in the world&quot;. 
[4] ... The collection of fungi at Kew Gallends includes species such as ... &quot;Lepiota viridigleba&quot; ...</td></tr></table>

Figure 5: Case study of SearChain and New Bing in marking references to supporting documents.

(2) Solving Difficult Sub-questions. The baselines focus on solving local sub-questions while ignoring the global planning of the reasoning chain. This leads LLM to tend to stop reasoning rather than try more when a sub-question cannot be solved. In our method, LLM acts as a commander that plans a global reasoning chain that can solve the complex question, when a sub-question cannot be solved, even without the help of IR, LLM can try to further decompose or rewrite the sub-question to continue reasoning. It is because our method focuses on building a global chain that can solve the complex question (global perspective), rather than answering or generating the sub-questions step by step (local perspective). Case study in Figure 4 shows that CoT and Self-Ask stop the reasoning while SearChain continues reasoning by rewriting the sub-question. More reasoning steps in Table 4 also support that SearChain can try more for difficult sub-questions. More case studies are shown in Section A.1.1 of Appendix.

4.3.4 SearChain vs New Bing in Tracing. We compare the performance of SearChain and New Bing in marking references for generated content via case study (Figure 5). We further propose two metrics to evaluate the Scope of Knowledge Coverage and Accuracy of Marking Position to show traceability more intuitively:

- Scope of Knowledge Coverage (SKC)  $[0, +]$ : The number of knowledge items marked with supporting documents in the generated content. (statistics, SearChain (2.882) is better than New Bing (1.143))  
- Accuracy of Marking Position (AMP) [0, 1]: The accuracy of the position of the reference marks. That is, whether the references are correctly marked on the sub-fragments for the corresponding knowledge in the generated content. (human evaluation, SearChain (0.80) is better than New Bing (0.45))

We introduce three humans with master's degrees to participate in our human evaluation and the results show that SearChain can mark references for each knowledge involved in the reasoning process (i.e., correct nodes of CoQ) in a fine-grained manner. While the references given by New Bing do not cover all of the knowledge

Table 5: Efficiency analysis.  

<table><tr><td></td><td>#n ↓</td><td>#m ↓</td><td>#r ↓</td><td>t(s) ↓</td><td>Perf. (Avg) ↑</td></tr><tr><td>Self-Ask</td><td>401</td><td>63</td><td>2.19</td><td>6.63</td><td>46.73</td></tr><tr><td>Plan-and-Solve w/ IR</td><td>450</td><td>71</td><td>1</td><td>6.05</td><td>48.89</td></tr><tr><td>React → CoT-SC</td><td>938</td><td>110</td><td>2.35</td><td>8.25</td><td>48.47</td></tr><tr><td>Verify-and-Edit</td><td>565</td><td>307</td><td>2.40</td><td>13.90</td><td>48.88</td></tr><tr><td>Tree-of-Thought w/ IR</td><td>622</td><td>341</td><td>2.29</td><td>13.28</td><td>50.47</td></tr><tr><td>DSP</td><td>1759</td><td>155</td><td>2.15</td><td>10.47</td><td>50.44</td></tr><tr><td>SearChain</td><td>390</td><td>189</td><td>2.21</td><td>8.52</td><td>53.29</td></tr></table>

and cannot be marked on the correct position. More case studies are shown in Section A.1.2 of Appendix.

4.3.5 Efficiency Analysis. We analyze the running efficiency between SearChain and baselines on the number of words in the input  $(n)$  and output  $(m)$  text of LLM, number of rounds of interaction between LLM and IR  $(r)$  and overall running time  $(t)$ . Table 5 shows our method significantly improves task performance with no significant increase in time consumption. Most baselines also require multiple rounds of interaction between IR and LLM.

# 5 CONCLUSION

In this paper, we point out the challenges of introducing IR into LLM from the perspectives of reasoning and knowledge. We then propose a novel framework named SearChain to enable IR and LLM to interact with each other effectively. SearChain not only stimulates the knowledge-reasoning ability of LLM but also uses IR to provide the knowledge that LLM really needs based on the external knowledge base, which improves both accuracy and credibility. Besides, SearChain can mark references to supporting documents for the knowledge involved in the generated content, which improves the traceability of the content. In addition, the interaction between IR and LLM in SearChain transforms the reasoning path from a chain to node-identify Depth-first Search on a tree, which enables

LLM to dynamically modify the reasoning direction. Experimental results on complex knowledge-intensive tasks show that SearChain performs better than all baselines.

# ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This work was supported by the National Key R&D Program of China (2022YFB3103700, 2022YFB3103704), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) under Grants No. 62276248 and U21B2046, and the Youth Innovation Promotion Association CAS under Grants No. 2023111.

# REFERENCES

[1] Razvan Azamfirei, Sapna R Kudchadkar, and James Fackler. 2023. Large language models and the perils of their hallucinations. Critical Care 27, 1 (2023), 1-2.  
[2] Yejin Bang, Samuel Cahyawijaya, Nayeon Lee, Wenliang Dai, Dan Su, Bryan Wilie, Holy Lovenia, Ziwei Ji, Tiezheng Yu, Willy Chung, Quyet V. Do, Yan Xu, and Pascale Fung. 2023. A Multitask, Multilingual, Multimodal Evaluation of ChatGPT on Reasoning, Hallucination, and Interactivity. CoRR abs/2302.04023 (2023). arXiv:2302.04023 https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2302.04023  
[3] Sebastian Borgeaud, Arthur Mensch, Jordan Hoffmann, et al. 2022. Improving Language Models by Retrieving from Trillions of Tokens. In International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2022, 17-23 July 2022, Baltimore, Maryland, USA (Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, Vol. 162). PMLR, 2206-2240. https://proceedings.mlr.press/v162/borgeaud22a.html  
[4] Xue-Qi Cheng and Hua-Wei Shen. 2010. Uncovering the community structure associated with the diffusion dynamics on networks. Journal of Statistical Mechanics: Theory and Experiment 2010, 04 (2010), P04024.  
[5] Andrew Drozdov, Nathanael Scharli, Ekin Akyurek, Nathan Scales, Xinying Song, Xinyun Chen, Olivier Bousquet, and Denny Zhou. 2023. Compositional Semantic Parsing with Large Language Models. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations. https://openreview.net/forum?id=gJW8hSGBys8  
[6] Hady Elsahar, Pavlos Vougiouklis, Arslen Remaci, et al. 2018. T-REx: A Large Scale Alignment of Natural Language with Knowledge Base Triples. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on LREC. European Language Resources Association (ELRA), Miyazaki, Japan. https://aclanthology.org/L18-1544  
[7] Angela Fan, Yacine Jernite, Ethan Perez, et al. 2019. ELI5: Long Form Question Answering. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on ACL. Association for Computational Linguistics, Florence, Italy, 3558-3567. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P19-1346  
[8] Yao Fu, Hao Peng, Ashish Sabharwal, Peter Clark, and Tushar Khot. 2023. Complexity-Based Prompting for Multi-step Reasoning. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations. https://openreview.net/forum?id=vf1icZHC-19  
[9] Mor Geva, Daniel Khashabi, Elad Segal, Tushar Khot, Dan Roth, and Jonathan Berant. 2021. Did Aristotle Use a Laptop? A Question Answering Benchmark with Implicit Reasoning Strategies. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics (TACL) (2021).  
[10] Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasupat, and Ming-Wei Chang. 2020. REALM: Retrieval-Augmented Language Model Pre-Training. CoRR abs/2002.08909 (2020). arXiv:2002.08909 https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.08909  
[11] Xanh Ho, Anh-Khoa Duong Nguyen, Saku Sugawara, and Akiko Aizawa. 2020. Constructing A Multi-hop QA Dataset for Comprehensive Evaluation of Reasoning Steps. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on COLING. International Committee on Computational Linguistics, Barcelona, Spain (Online), 6609-6625. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2020.coling-main.580  
[12] Gautier Izacard and Edouard Grave. 2020. Leveraging Passage Retrieval with Generative Models for Open Domain Question Answering. CoRR abs/2007.01282 (2020). arXiv:2007.01282 https://arxiv.org/abs/2007.01282  
[13] Nikhil Kandpal, Haikang Deng, Adam Roberts, Eric Wallace, and Colin Raffel. 2022. Large Language Models Struggle to Learn Long-Tail Knowledge. arXiv:2211.08411 [cs.CL]  
[14] Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oguz, Sewon Min, et al. 2020. Dense Passage Retrieval for Open-Domain Question Answering. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on EMNLP. Association for Computational Linguistics, Online, 6769-6781. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2020.emnlp-main.550  
[15] Omar Khattab, Keshav Santhanam, Xiang Lisa Li, et al. 2023. Demonstrate-SearchPredict: Composing retrieval and language models for knowledge-intensive NLP. arXiv:2212.14024 [cs.CL]  
[16] Takeshi Kojima, Shixiang Shane Gu, Manuel Reid, Yutaka Matsuo, and Yusuke Iwasawa. 2022. Large Language Models are Zero-Shot Reasoners. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, Alice H. Oh, Alekh Agarwal, Danielle Belgrave, and Kyunghyun Cho (Eds.). https://openreview.net/forum?id=e2TbB5y0yFf

[17] Omer Levy, Minjoon Seo, Eunsol Choi, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2017. Zero-Shot Relation Extraction via Reading Comprehension. In Proceedings of the 2017 Conference on CoNLL). Association for Computational Linguistics, Vancouver, Canada, 333-342. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/K17-1034  
[18] Patrick S. H. Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Heinrich Kuttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rocktaschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela. 2020. Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on NeurIPS.  
[19] Chin-Yew Lin. 2004. ROUGE: A Package for Automatic Evaluation of Summaries. In Text Summarization Branches Out. Association for Computational Linguistics, Barcelona, Spain, 74-81. https://aclanthology.org/W04-1013  
[20] Sewon Min, Weijia Shi, Mike Lewis, Xilun Chen, Wen-tau Yih, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2022. Nonparametric Masked Language Modeling. CoRR abs/2212.01349 (2022). https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv:2212.01349 arXiv:2212.01349  
[21] Xiangyang Mou, Chenghao Yang, Mo Yu, Bingsheng Yao, Xiaoxiao Guo, Saloni Pottdar, and Hui Su. 2021. Narrative Question Answering with Cutting-Edge Open-Domain QA Techniques: A Comprehensive Study. Trans. Assoc. Comput. Linguistics 9 (2021), 1032-1046. https://doi.org/10.1162/tacl_a_00411  
[22] Shuzi Niu, Jiafeng Guo, Yanyan Lan, and Xueqi Cheng. 2012. Top-k learning to rank: labeling, ranking and evaluation. In Proceedings of the 35th international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval. 751-760.  
[23] Fabio Petroni, Aleksandra Piktus, Angela Fan, et al. 2021. KILT: a Benchmark for Knowledge Intensive Language Tasks. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on NAACL. Association for Computational Linguistics, Online, 2523-2544. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2021.naacl-main.200  
[24] Ofir Press, Muru Zhang, Sewon Min, Ludwig Schmidt, Noah A. Smith, and Mike Lewis. 2023. Measuring and Narrowing the Compositionality Gap in Language Models. https://openreview.net/forum?id=PUwbwZjz9DO  
[25] Hongjing Qian, Yutao Zhu, Zhicheng Dou, et al. 2023. WebBrain: Learning to Generate Factually Correct Articles for Queries by Grounding on Large Web Corpus. arXiv:2304.04358 [cs.CL]  
[26] Corby Rosset, Chenyan Xiong, Minh Phan, et al. 2020. Knowledge-Aware Language Model Pretraining. CoRR abs/2007.00655 (2020). arXiv:2007.00655 https://arxiv.org/abs/2007.00655  
[27] Keshav Santhanam, Omar Khattab, Jon Saad-Falcon, Christopher Potts, and Matei Zaharia. 2022. ColBERTv2: Effective and Efficient Retrieval via Lightweight Late Interaction. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on NAACL. Association for Computational Linguistics, Seattle, United States, 3715-3734. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2022.naacl-main.272  
[28] Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Roberto Dessi, Roberta Raileanu, Maria Lameli, Luke Zettlemoyer, Nicola Cancedda, and Thomas Scialom. 2023. Toolformer: Language Models Can Teach Themselves to Use Tools. arXiv:2302.04761 [cs.CL]  
[29] Aarohi Srivastava, Abhinav Rastogi, Abhishek Rao, Abu Awal Md Shoeb, Abubakar Abid, Adam Fisch, Adam R. Brown, Adam Santoro, Aditya Gupta, Adri Garriga-Alonso, et al. 2022. Beyond the Imitation Game: Quantifying and extrapolating the capabilities of language models. arXiv:2206.04615 [cs.CL]  
[30] Zhiqing Sun, Xuezhi Wang, Yi Tay, Yiming Yang, and Denny Zhou. 2023. Recitation-Augmented Language Models. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations. https://openreview.net/forum?id=—cqvvb-NKI  
[31] Robert Tarjan. 1971. Depth-first search and linear graph algorithms. In 12th Annual Symposium on Switching and Automata Theory (swat 1971). 114-121. https://doi.org/10.1109/SWAT.1971.10  
[32] James Thorne, Andreas Vlachos, Christos Christodoulopoulos, and Arpit Mittal. 2018. FEVER: a Large-scale Dataset for Fact Extraction and VERIFICATION. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on NAACL. Association for Computational Linguistics, New Orleans, Louisiana, 809-819. https://aclanthology.org/N18-1074  
[33] Harsh Trivedi, Niranjan Balasubramanian, Tushar Khot, and Ashish Sabharwal. 2022. MuSiQue: Multihop Questions via Single-hop Question Composition. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics 10 (2022), 539-554. https://doi.org/10.1162/tacl_a_00475  
[34] Lei Wang, Wanyu Xu, Yihuai Lan, et al. 2023. Plan-and-Solve Prompting: Improving Zero-Shot Chain-of-Thought Reasoning by Large Language Models. arXiv:2305.04091 [cs.CL]  
[35] Xuezhi Wang, Jason Wei, Dale Schuurmans, et al. 2023. Self-Consistency Improves Chain of Thought Reasoning in Language Models. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations. https://openreview.net/forum?id=1PL1NIMMrw  
[36] Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Ed H. Chi, Quoc Le, and Denny Zhou. 2022. Chain of Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models. CoRR abs/2201.11903 (2022). arXiv:2201.11903 https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.11903  
[37] Shicheng Xu, Liang Pang, Huawei Shen, and Xueqi Cheng. 2022. Match-Prompt: Improving Multi-task Generalization Ability for Neural Text Matching via Prompt Learning. In Proceedings of the 31st ACM International Conference on Information & Knowledge Management. 2290-2300.

[38] Shicheng Xu, Liang Pang, Huawei Shen, and Xueqi Cheng. 2023. BERM: Training the Balanced and Extractable Representation for Matching to Improve Generalization Ability of Dense Retrieval. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.11052 (2023).  
[39] Shicheng Xu, Liang Pang, Jun Xu, Huawei Shen, and Xueqi Cheng. 2024. List-aware Reranking-Truncation Joint Model for Search and Retrieval-augmented Generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.02764 (2024).  
[40] Zhilin Yang, Peng Qi, Saizheng Zhang, et al. 2018. HotpotQA: A Dataset for Diverse, Explainable Multi-hop Question Answering. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on EMNLP. Association for Computational Linguistics, Brussels, Belgium, 2369-2380. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/D18-1259  
[41] Shunyu Yao, Dian Yu, Jeffrey Zhao, Izhak Shafran, Thomas L. Griffiths, Yuan Cao, and Karthik Narasimhan. 2023. Tree of Thoughts: Deliberate Problem Solving with Large Language Models. arXiv:2305.10601 [cs.CL]  
[42] Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, et al. 2023. ReAct: Synergizing Reasoning and Acting in Language Models. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations. https://openreview.net/forum?id=WE_vluYUL-X  
[43] Da Yin, Li Dong, Hao Cheng, Xiaodong Liu, Kai-Wei Chang, Furu Wei, and Jianfeng Gao. 2022. A Survey of Knowledge-Intensive NLP with Pre-Trained Language Models. arXiv:2202.08772 [cs.CL]  
[44] Eric Zelikman, Yuhuai Wu, Jesse Mu, and Noah Goodman. 2022. STaR: Bootstrapping Reasoning With Reasoning. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, Alice H. Oh, Alekh Agarwal, Danielle Belgrave, and Kyunghyun Cho (Eds.). https://openreview.net/forum?id=3ELRdg2sgI  
[45] Zhuosheng Zhang, Aston Zhang, Mu Li, and Alex Smola. 2023. Automatic Chain of Thought Prompting in Large Language Models. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations. https://openreview.net/forum?id=5NTt8GFjUHkr  
[46] Ruochen Zhao, Xingxuan Li, Shafq Joty, Chengwei Qin, and Lidong Bing. 2023. Verify-and-Edit: A Knowledge-Enhanced Chain-of-Thought Framework. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on ACL. Association for Computational Linguistics, Toronto, Canada, 5823-5840. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.320  
[47] Wayne Xin Zhao, Kun Zhou, Junyi Li, et al. 2023. A Survey of Large Language Models. arXiv:2303.18223 [cs.CL]  
[48] Denny Zhou, Nathanael Schärli, Le Hou, et al. 2022. Least-to-Most Prompting Enables Complex Reasoning in Large Language Models. arXiv:2205.10625 [cs.AI]  
[49] Yunchang Zhu, Liang Pang, Yanyan Lan, Huawei Shen, and Xueqi Cheng. 2021. Adaptive information seeking for open-domain question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.06747 (2021).

# A APPENDIX

# A.1 Case Study

In this section, we compare the performance of SearChain and New Bing  ${}^{4}$  in adding references to supporting documents for generated content via case study. We also use case study to further analyze why CoQ has stronger reasoning ability than Baselines.

A.1.1 Case Study for CoQ vs Baselines in Reasoning. Baselines focus on solving local sub-questions while ignoring the global planning of the reasoning chain, which leads LLM to tend to stop reasoning rather than try more when a sub-question cannot be solved. In our method, LLM acts as a commander that plans a global reasoning chain that can solve the complex question, when a sub-question cannot be solved, even without the help of IR, LLM can try to further decompose or rewrite the sub-question to continue reasoning. It is because our method focuses on building a global chain that can solve the complex question (global perspective), rather than answering or generating sub-questions step by step (local perspective). This makes LLM try more when faced with intermediate difficulties to finally solve complex questions. Case study shown in Figure 6 indicates that SearChain continues reasoning but baselines stop.  
A.1.2 Case Study for SearChain vs New Bing in Tracing. We compare the performance of SearChain and New Bing in marking references for generated content via case study (Figure 7). SearChain can mark references for each knowledge involved in the reasoning process (i.e., each correct node of CoQ) in a more fine-grained

<table><tr><td colspan="2">Who followed the father of Menucha Rochel Slonim?</td></tr><tr><td>CoT</td><td>The question is incomplete and unclear about Menucha Rochel Slonim&#x27;s father.×</td></tr><tr><td>Self-Ask w/o Retrieval</td><td>Please provide additional information about Menucha Rochel Slonim&#x27;s father so we can answer the question.×</td></tr><tr><td>SearChain w/o Retrieval</td><td>[Query 1]: Who was the father of Menucha Rochel Slonim? [Answer 1]: Rabbi Dovber Schneuri, the second Rebbe of the Chabad Lubavitch movement. [Query 2]: Who succeeded Rabbi Dovber Schneuri as Rebbe? [Answer 2]: His son, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneersohn. [Final Content]: The father of Menucha Rochel Slonim is Rabbi Dovber Schneuri [1]. His son Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneersohn succeeded Rabbi Dovber Schneuri as Rebbe[2]. So the final answer is Richard Stallman.×</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Who is the president of the newly declared independent country that is part of the commission of Truth and Friendship with the country where Inierie is located?</td></tr><tr><td>CoT</td><td>Unfortunately, there is not enough information provided in the question to accurately answer it.×</td></tr><tr><td>Self-Ask w/o Retrieval</td><td>Follow up: What is the name of the newly declared independent country? Intermediate answer: The name of the country is not clear.×</td></tr><tr><td>SearChain w/o Retrieval</td><td>[Query 1]: What countries are part of the commission of Truth and Friendship with Inierie? [Answer 1]: East Timor and Indonesia [Query 2]: Which of these countries recently declared independence? [Answer 2]: East Timor [Query 3]: Who is the president of East Timor? [Answer 3]: Francisco Guteres [Final Content]: East Timor and Indonesia are part of the commission of Truth and Friendship with Inierie [1]. East Timor recently declared independence [2] and the president of it is Francisco Guteres. So the final answer is Francisco Guteres.×</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Where did William Beckford&#x27;s child die?</td></tr><tr><td>CoT</td><td>William Beckford&#x27;s child, a daughter named Maria Hamilton, the information about the death of Maria Hamilton is not clear.×</td></tr><tr><td>Self-Ask w/o Retrieval</td><td>Follow up: What was the name of William Beckford&#x27;s child? Intermediate answer: The name of William Beckford&#x27;s child is not specified in the question.×</td></tr><tr><td>SearChain w/o Retrieval</td><td>[Query 1]: Who is William Beckford? [Answer 2]: William Beckford was an English novelist, art collector, and politician. [Query 2]: Did William Beckford have any children? [Answer 2]: Yes, William Beckford had one child, a son named William Thomas Beckford. [Query 3]: Where did William Thomas Beckford live? [Answer 3]: William Thomas Beckford lived in various places in England, including Bath and Fonthill Abbey. [Query 4]: Where did William Beckford&#x27;s child die? [Answer 4]: William Thomas Beckford&#x27;s child died in Bath. [Final Content]: William Beckford was an English novelist, art collector, and politician [1]. William Beckford had one child, a son named William Thomas Beckford [2]. William Thomas Beckford lived in various places in England, including Bath and Fonthill Abbey and died in Bath [3,4]. So the final answer is Bath.×</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Who is the owner of the record label of the performer of Groovy Little Summer Song?</td></tr><tr><td>CoT</td><td>The owner of the record label of the performer of &quot;Groovy Little Summer Song&quot; is not specified. More information is needed to answer this question.×</td></tr><tr><td>Self-Ask w/o Retrieval</td><td>Follow up: Who is the performer of Groovy Little Summer Song? Intermediate answer: The performer of Groovy Little Summer Song is not specified.×</td></tr><tr><td>SearChain w/o Retrieval</td><td>[Query 1]: What is the name of the performer of Groovy Little Summer Song? [Answer 1]: I don&#x27;t know. [Query 2]: Can you find out the name of the performer of Groovy Little Summer Song? [Answer 2]: The performer of Groovy Little Summer Song is James Otto. [Query 3]: What is the name of the record label that James Otto is signed to? [Answer 3]: Warner Music Nashville is the record label that James Otto is signed to. [Query 4]: Who is the owner of Warner Music Nashville? [Answer 4]: Warner Music Nashville is a subsidiary of Warner Music Group, so the owner would be Warner Music Group. [Final Content]: The performer of Groovy Little Summer Song is James Otto [2]. Warner Music Nashville is the record label that James Otto is signed to [3]. The owner of Warner Music Nashville is Warner Music Group [4]. So the final answer is Warner Music Group.×</td></tr></table>

Figure 6: Case study for CoQ vs Baselines in Reasoning.

manner. While references given by New Bing do not cover all of the knowledge, and in some cases New Bing cannot find the knowledge. SearChain provides a novel perspective that decomposes complex multi-step knowledge-intensive tasks into multiple single-step knowledge reasoning problems, retrieving the supporting documents of knowledge for each step of reasoning, and organizing these reasoning steps with their reference marks as final generated content. This enables the supporting documents to cover every knowledge involved in the generated content, which enhances the traceability of the generated content.

Table 6: Performance of SearChain and DSP on complex knowledge-intensive tasks on Vicuna-13B. Bold denotes the best result in different settings. FC: Fact Checking, LFQA: Long-Form QA. Metric for LFQA: ROUGE-L. Metric for others: cover-EM.  

<table><tr><td rowspan="2"></td><td rowspan="2">HoPo</td><td colspan="3">Muti-Hop QA</td><td colspan="2">Slot Filling</td><td rowspan="2">FC FEV.</td><td rowspan="2">LFQA ELI5</td></tr><tr><td>MQ</td><td>WQA</td><td>SQA</td><td>zsRE</td><td>T-REx</td></tr><tr><td colspan="9">Interaction with Information Retrieval</td></tr><tr><td>DSP</td><td>25.45</td><td>9.06</td><td>27.50</td><td>62.01</td><td>33.71</td><td>49.08</td><td>73.05</td><td>22.58</td></tr><tr><td>SearChain</td><td>29.77</td><td>10.59</td><td>32.32</td><td>63.75</td><td>36.86</td><td>52.75</td><td>75.47</td><td>24.05</td></tr></table>

<table><tr><td colspan="2">The Duke Steps Out stars an actress who was ranked tenth on a list of greatest female Hollywood stars in what year?</td></tr><tr><td>SearChainJoan Crawford starred in The Duke Steps Out [1], which was released on May 14, 1929 [2]. The American Film Institute (AFI) ranked the greatest female Hollywood stars in 1999 [3], and the top five were Katharine Hepburn, Bette Davis, Audrey Hepburn, Ingrid Bergman, and Greta Garbo [4]. Joan Crawford was ranked tenth on the list [5]. So the answer is 1999.</td><td>New BingI&#x27;m sorry, but I couldn&#x27;t find any information about the actress from TheDuke Steps Out who was ranked tenth on a list of greatest female Hollywood stars [1]. Could you provide more details or perhaps rephrase your question?</td></tr><tr><td>[1] ... The Duke Steps Out The Duke Steps Out is directed by James Cruze and starring William Haines and Joan Crawford ...[2] ... The Duke Steps Out is a 1929 silent comedy-drama film...[3] ... AFI&#x27;s 100 Years...100 Stars is a list of the top 25 male and 25 female Hollywood stars ... The list was unveiled by the American Film Institute on June 15, 1999 ...[4] ... &quot;AFI&#x27;s 100 Years...100 Stars&quot; ... Of the 25 actresses listed, Davis was ranked at number two, behind Katharine Hepburn. The United States Postal Service honored Davis with a commemorative postage stamp in 2008, marking the 100th anniversary of her birth ...[5] ... Joan Crawford ... was also voted the tenth greatest female star of the classic American cinema by the American Film Institute ...</td><td>[1]: AFI&#x27;s 100 Years...100 Stars is the American Film Institute&#x27;s list ranking the top 25 male and 25 female greatest screen legends of American film history and is the second list of the AFI 100 Years... series.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Lorenzo Monaco was influenced by which Italian painter and architect?</td></tr><tr><td>SearChainLorenzo Monaco lived and worked between 1370 and 1425 [1]. The famous Italian painters and architects during his time included Giotto, Masaccio, Brunelleschi, and Donatello [2]. Giotto and Masaccio specifically influenced his work [2], as well as Piero di Giovanni in Siena, Spinello Aretino, and Agnolo Gaddi [2]. So, the answer to the question &quot;Lorenzo Monaco was influenced by which Italian painter and architect?&quot; is Giotto, Masaccio, Piero di Giovanni in Siena, Spinello Aretino, and Agnolo Gaddi.</td><td>[1]: Lorenzo Monaco (c. 1370 - c. 1425) was an Italian painter of the late Gothic to early Renaissance age. He was born Piero di Giovanni in Siena, Italy and was apprentice in Florence. He was influenced by Giotto and that artist&#x27;s followers Spinello Aretino and Agnolo Gaddi [1].</td></tr><tr><td>[1] ... Lorenzo Monaco Lorenzo Monaco (born Piero di Giovanni; 1370 - c. 1425) was an Italian painter of the ...[2] Lorenzo was an Italian painter of the late Gothic-early Renaissance age. He was born Piero di Giovanni in Siena. Little is known about his youth, apart from the fact that he was apprentice in Florence. He was influenced by Giotto and his followers Spinello Aretino and Agnolo Gaddi. In 1390 he joined the Camaldolese monastery of Santa Maria degli Angeli. He was thenceforth generally known as &quot;Lorenzo Monaco&quot; (English: &quot;Lawrence the Monk&quot;). In the 1390s he executed three panels of the Biblioteca Laurenziana for his convent ...</td><td>[1]: Lorenzo Monaco Lorenzo Monaco was an Italian painter of the late Gothic-early Renaissance age. He was born Piero di Giovanni in Siena. Little is known about his youth, apart from the fact that he was apprentice in Florence. He was influenced by Giotto and his followers Spinello Aretino and Agnolo Gaddi. In 1390 he joined the Camaldolse ...</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">The song Arizona was recorded by Paul Revere and Mark Lindsay but who wrote the song?</td></tr><tr><td>SearChainPaul Revere is Patriot in the American Revolution [1]. Mark Lindsay is a musician who is the lead singer of Paul Revere &amp; the Raiders [2]. The song Arizona was recorded by Paul Revere and Mark Lindsay, and written by Kenny Young [3]. So the final answer is Kenny Young.</td><td>[1]: &quot;Arizona&quot; is a song written by Kenny Young and recorded by Mark Lindsay, a solo effort while still lead singer for Paul Revere and the Raiders in 1969 [1]. Is there anything else you would like to know?</td></tr><tr><td>[1] ... Paul Revere was an American silversmith, engraver, early industrialist, and Patriot in the American Revolution.</td><td>[1]: &quot;Arizona&quot; is a song written by Kenny Young and recorded in 1969 by Mark Lindsay, a solo effort while still lead singer for Paul Revere and the Raiders ...</td></tr><tr><td>[2] ... Mark Lindsay (born March 9, 1942) is an American musician, best known as the lead singer of Paul Revere &amp; the Raiders ...[3] ... &quot;Arizona&quot; is a song written by Kenny Young and recorded in 1969 by Mark Lindsay, a solo effort while still lead singer for Paul Revere and the Raiders ...</td><td>[1]: &quot;Arizona&quot; is a song written by Kenny Young and recorded in 1969 by Mark Lindsay, a solo effort while still lead singer for Paul Revere and the Raiders ...</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">When was the album with the song Unbelievable by American rapper The Notorious B.I.G released?</td></tr><tr><td>SearChainThe Notorious B.I.G., also known as Christopher Wallace, was an American rapper [1]. He released two studio albums during his lifetime: &quot;Ready to Die&quot; in 1994 and &quot;Life After Death&quot; in 1997 [2]. The song &quot;Unbelievable&quot; was included on his debut album &quot;Ready to Die&quot; [3], &quot;which was released on September 13, 1994 [4]. So the answer is September 13, 1994.</td><td>[1] ... The Notorious B.I.G. Christopher George Latore Wallace (May 21, 1972 - March 9, 1997), known professionally as the Notorious B.I.G., Biggie Smalls, or Biggie, was an American rapper ...[2] ... Life After Death Life After Death is the second and final studio album by American rapper The Notorious B.I.G., released on March 25, 1997 ... The Notorious B.I.G. further delving into the mafioso rap subgenre. The album is a sequel to his first album, &quot;Ready to Die&quot; ...[3] ... Ready to Die ... Songs on the album range from homicide narratives (&quot;Warning&quot;) to braggadocios battle raps (&quot;The What,&quot; &quot;Unbelievable&quot;) ...[4] ... Ready to Die | Ready to Die Ready to Die is the debut studio album by American rapper The Notorious B.I.G., released on September 13, 1994 ...</td></tr></table>

Table 8: Number of examples in prompt used for in-content learning on different datasets.  

<table><tr><td></td><td colspan="4">Muti-Hop QA</td><td colspan="2">Slot Filling</td><td>FC</td><td>LFQA</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>HoPo</td><td>MQ</td><td>WQA</td><td>SQA</td><td>zsRE</td><td>T-REx</td><td>FEV.</td><td>ELI5</td></tr><tr><td colspan="9">Without Information Retrieval</td></tr><tr><td>Direct Prompting</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>Auto-CoT</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>6</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>CoT</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>6</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>CoT-SC</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>6</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>Recite-and-answer</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>6</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>Self-Ask w/o IR</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>6</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>Least-to-Most</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>6</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>Plan-and-Solve</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>6</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>SearChain w/o IR</td><td>2</td><td>2</td><td>2</td><td>6</td><td>2</td><td>2</td><td>4</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td colspan="9">Interaction with Information Retrieval</td></tr><tr><td>Direct Retrieval</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>ToolFormer</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>6</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>Self-Ask</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>6</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>Plan-and-Solve w/ IR</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>6</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>React → CoT-SC</td><td>6</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>6</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>Verify-and-Edit</td><td>2</td><td>2</td><td>2</td><td>2</td><td>2</td><td>2</td><td>4</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>Tree-of-Thought w/ IR</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>6</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>4</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>DSP</td><td>16</td><td>8</td><td>8</td><td>8</td><td>8</td><td>8</td><td>8</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>SearChain</td><td>2</td><td>2</td><td>2</td><td>2</td><td>2</td><td>2</td><td>4</td><td>2</td></tr></table>

Table 7: Performance change with ROUGE threshold.  

<table><tr><td></td><td>α = 0.30</td><td>α = 0.35</td><td>α = 0.40</td><td>α = 0.45</td><td>α = 0.50</td></tr><tr><td>Performance</td><td>25.50</td><td>25.57</td><td>25.58</td><td>25.57</td><td>25.55</td></tr></table>

# A.2 Performance on Vicuna-13B

In this section, we compare SearChain with the competitive baseline DSP on Vicuna-13B  $^{5}$ , a strong open source large model trained by Stanford. The experimental results in Table 6 show that SearChain again outperforms DSP on Vicuna-13B.

# A.3 Experimental Details

A.3.1 Threshold Selection. As for the confidence threshold  $(\theta)$ , we initialize the initial value of the confidence threshold (1.0) based on prior knowledge and gradually increase the value with a step size of 0.1. We validate the F1-score (a comprehensive metric of the

Figure 7: Case study for SearChain vs New Bing in Tracing.

Construct a global reasoning chain for this complex [Question]: " $\{\}$ ". "You should generate a query to the search engine based on what you already know at each step of the reasoning chain, starting with [Ques].

If you know the answer for [Query], generate it starting with [Answer].

You can try to generate the final answer for the [Question] by referring to the [Query]-[Answer] pairs, starting with [Final Content].

If you don't know the answer, generate a query to search engine based on what you already know and do not know, starting with [Unsolved Query].

For exmaple:

[Question]: "Is it common to see frost during some college commencements?"

[Query 1]: What seasons can you expect see frost?

If you don't know the answer:

[Unsolved Query]: What seasons can you expect see frost?

Instruction: Please Stop your generation.

If you know the answer:

[Answer 1]: Winter.

[Query 2]: What months do college commences occur?

If you don't know the answer.

[Unsolved Query]: What months do college commences occur?

Instruction: Please Stop your generation.

If you know the answer:

[Answer 2]: December, May, and sometimes June.

[Query 3]: Do any of December, May, and sometimes June occur during winter?

If you don't know the

[Unsolved Query]: Do any of December, May, and sometimes June occur during winter?

If you know the answer:

[Answer 3]: December

Instruction: Please Stop your generation.

If you know the answer:

[Question]: "Is it common to see frost during some college commencements?" (The answer can only be "Yes" or "No")

[Final Content]: You expect see frost in Winter [1]. College commences occur on December, May, and sometimes June [2]. December, May, and sometimes June occur during winter [3]. So the final answer is Yes.

[Question]: "Would a pear sink in water?"

[Query 1]: What is the density of a pear?

[Answer 1]:  $0.59\mathrm{g / cm^{\wedge}3}$

[Query 2]: What is the density of water?

[Answer 2]:  $1\mathrm{g/cm}^3$

[Query 3]: Is  $0.59\mathrm{g/cm^3}$  greater than  $\mathrm{g/cm^3}$ ?

[Answer 3]: No

Question]:"Would a pear sink in water?" (Yes or No)

[Final Content]: The density of a pear is  $0.59\mathrm{g/cm}^3$  [1]. The density of water is  $1\mathrm{g/cm}^3$  [2].  $0.59\mathrm{g/cm}^3$  is not greater than

g/cm^3 [3]. So the final answer is No.

Figure 10: Prompt for generating Chain-of-Query at the first round on StrategyQA (in the setting with information retrieval).

Construct a global reasoning chain for this complex [Question]: "\{}" You should generate a query to the search engine based on what you already know at each step of the reasoning chain, starting with [Query].

If you know the answer for [Query], generate it starting with [Answer].

You can try to generate the final answer for the [Question] by referring to the [Query]-[Answer] pairs, starting with [Final Content].

If you don't know the answer, generate a query to search engine based on what you already know and do not know, starting with [Unsolved Query].

For example:

[Question]: "Where do greyhound buses that are in the birthplace of Spirit If...s performer leave from?"

[Query 1]: Who is the performer of Spirit If...?

If you don't know the answer:

[Unsolved Query]: Who is the performer of Spirit If...?

If you know the answer:

[Answer 1]: The performer of Spirit If... is Kevin Drew.

[Query 2]: Where was Kevin Drew born?

If you don't know the

[Unsolved Query]: Where was Kevin Drew born?

If you know the answer:

[Answer 2]: Toronto.

[Query 3]: Where do greyhound buses in Toronto leave from?

If you don't know the answer:

[Unsolved Query]: Where do greyhound buses in Toronto leave from?

If you know the answer:

[Answer 3]: Toronto Coach Terminal.

[Final Content]: The performer of Spirit If... is Kevin Drew [1]. Kevin Drew was born in Toronto [2]. Greyhound buses in

Toronto leave from Toronto

Coach Terminal [3]. So the final answer is Toronto Coach Terminal.

[Question]: "Which magazine was started first Arthur's Magazine or First for Women?"

[Query 1]: When was Arthur's Magazine started?

[Answer 1]: 1844.

[Query 2]: When was First for Women started?

[Answer 2]: 1989

[Final Content]: Arthur's Magazine started in 1844 [1]. First for Women started in 1989 [2]. So Arthur's Magazine was started

first. So the answer is Arthur's Magazine.

Figure 11: Prompt for generating Chain-of-Query at the first round on HotpotQA, Musique, WikiMultiHopQA, zsRE and T-REx (in the setting with information retrieval).

Construct a global reasoning chain for this complex [Question]:  $\{\} \quad$  " You should generate a query to the search engine based on what you already know at each step of the reasoning chain, starting with [Query].

If you know the answer for [Query], generate it starting with [Answer].

You can try to generate the final answer for the [Question] by referring to the [Query]-[Answer] pairs, starting with [Final]

Content].

If you don't know the answer, generate a query to search engine based on what you already know and do not know, starting with [Unsolved Query].

For example:

[Question]: "What causes the trail behind jets at high altitude?"

[Query 1]: What is the trail behind jets at high altitude?

If you don't know the answer:

[Unsolved Query]: What is the trail behind jets at high altitude?

If you know the answer:

[Answer 1]: The trail behind jets at high altitude is commonly referred to as a contrail, which is short for "condensation trail." It

is formed when the hot exhaust gases from a jet engine mix with the colder air at high altitudes, causing the water vapor in the air to condense and freeze into tiny ice crystals.

[Query 2]: Why do the hot exhaust gases mix with the colder air at high altitudes?

If you don't know the answer:

[Unsolved Query]: Why do the hot exhaust gases mix with the colder air at high altitudes?

If you know the answer:

[Answer 2]: The hot exhaust gases from a jet engine mix with the colder air at high altitudes due to the pressure difference

between the engine exhaust and the surrounding air. At high altitudes, the air is much colder and thinner, which causes the

exhaust gases to rapidly expand and cool, creating a turbulent wake behind the aircraft.

[Query 3]: Why does the water vapor in the air condense and freeze into ice crystals?

If you don't know the answer:

[Unsolved Query]: Why does the water vapor in the air condense and freeze into ice crystals?

If you know the answer:

[Answer 3]: The water vapor in the air condenses and freezes into ice crystals because the exhaust gases from the jet engine contain a significant amount of water vapor, which is heated to high temperatures in the engine. When the hot water vapor mixes with the cold air at high altitudes, it quickly loses heat and energy, causing the water vapor to condense into liquid droplets and then freeze into ice crystals.

[Final Content]: The trail behind jets at high altitude is formed when the hot exhaust gases from a jet engine mix with the colder air at high altitudes, causing the water vapor in the air to condense and freeze into tiny ice crystals. The exhaust gases mix with the colder air due to the pressure difference between the engine exhaust and the surrounding air, and the water vapor condenses and freezes because it is heated to high temperatures in the engine and then quickly loses heat and energy when mixed with the cold air at high altitudes.

[Question]: In Trading Places (1983, Akroyd/Murphy) how does the scheme at the end of the movie work? Why would buying a lot of OJ at a high price ruin the Duke Brothers?

[Query 1]: What is the scheme at the end of Trading Places?

[Answer 1]: In the movie, the main character, Billy Ray Valentine (Eddie Murphy), and his partner, Louis Winthorne (Ellan Avkrovd), execute a plan to bankrupt the Duke Brothers by manipulating the frozen concentrated orange juice (FCOJ) futures

market.

[Query 2]: How do Billy Ray and Louis manipulate the FCOJ futures market?

[Answer 2]: Billy Ray and Louis obtain inside information about the Department of Agriculture's upcoming crop report, which indicates that a harsh winter has destroyed much of the orange crop. They use this information to purchase FCOJ futures

contracts at a low price before the report is released, and then they sell the contracts at a high price after the report's release.

when the market has responded to the news of the crop damage.

[Query 3]: Why does buying a lot of OJ at a high price ruin the Duke Brothers?

[Answer 3]: The Duke Brothers, who are also investing in the FCOJ market, have bet that the orange crop will be abundant and that the price of FCOJ will remain low. However, Billy Ray and Louis's scheme drives up the price of FCOJ, causing the Duke Brothers to lose a significant amount of money and ultimately leading to their downfall.

[Final Content]: In Trading Places, Billy Ray Valentine and Louis Winthorpe III manipulate the FCOJ futures market by

obtaining insider information about the crop report and purchasing contracts at a low price before selling them at a higher price

after the report is released. The Duke Brothers, who have also invested in the market, lose money because they bet on an

abundance orange crop and low FCOJ prices. However, Billy Ray and Louis's scheme causes the price of FCOJ to rise, which ruins the Duke Brothers and leads to their downfall.

Figure 12: Prompt for generating Chain-of-Query at the first round on ELI5 (in the setting with information retrieval).

Construct a global reasoning chain for this complex question [Question]:[ \text{"} \text{"} \text{"} ] and answer the question, and generate a query to the search engine based on what you already know at each step of the reasoning chain, starting with [Query].

You should generate the answer for each [Query], starting with [Answer].

You should generate the final answer for the [Question] by referring the [Query]-[Answer] pairs, starting with [Final Content].

For example:

[Question]: "How many places of higher learning are in the city where the Yongle emperor greeted the person to whom the edict was addressed?"

[Query 1]: Who was the edict addressed to?

[Answer 1]: the Karmapa

[Query 2]: Where did the Yongle Emperor greet the Karmapa?

[Answer 2]: Nanjing

[Query 3]: How many places of higher learning are in Nanjing?

[Answer 3]:75

[Final Content]: The edict was addressed to Karmapa [1]. Yongle Emperor greet the Karampa in Nanjing [2]. There are 75 places

of higher learning are in Nanjing [3]. So the final ansv

[Question]: "Which magazine was started first Arthur's Magazine or First for Women?"

[Query 1]: When was Arthur's Magazine started?

[Answer 1]: 1844.

[Query 2]: When was First for Women started?

[Answer 2]: 1989

[Final Content]: Arthur's Magazine started in 1844 [1]. First for Women started in 1989 [2]. So Arthur's Magazine was started

first. So the final answer is Arthur's Magazine.

Figure 8: Prompt for generating Chain-of-Query on HotpotQA, Musique, WikiMultiHopQA, zsRE and T-REx (in the setting without information retrieval).

```txt
Construct a global reasoning chain for this complex question [Question]:{"} and answer the question, and generate a query to the search engine based on what you already know at each step of the reasoning chain, starting with [Query]. You should generate the answer for each [Query], starting with [Answer]. You should generate the final answer for the [Question] by referring the [Query]-[Answer] pairs, starting with [Final Content]. If you don't know the answer, generate a query to the search engine based on what you already know and donot know, starting with [Unsolved Query] and please stop your generation. For example: [Question]:How many places of higher learning are in the city where the Yongle emperor greeted the person to whom the edict was addressed?" [Query 1]: Who was the edict addressed to? If you don't know the answer: [Unsolved Query]: Who was the edict addressed to? If you know the answer: [Answer 1]: the Karmapa [Query 2]: Where did the Yongle Emperor greet the the Karmapa? If you don't know the answer: [Unsolved Query]: here did the Yongle Emperor greet the the Karmapa? If you know the answer: [Answer 2]: Nanjing [Query 3]: How many places of higher learning are in Nanjing ? If you don't know the answer: [Unsolved Query]: How many places of higher learning are in Nanjing? If you know the answer: [Answer 3]: 75 [Final Content]: The edict was addressed to Karmapa [1]. Yongle Emperor greet the Karampa in Nanjing [2]. There are 75 places of higher learning are in Nanjing [3]. So the final answer is 75.   
[Question]:"Nicholas Brody is a character on Homeland. (SUPPORTS or REFUTES)?" [Query 1]: What is Homeland? [Answer 1]: Homeland is a television series. [Query 2]: Is Nicholas Brody a character in Homeland? [Answer 2]: Yes. [Final Content]: Homeland is a television series [1]. Nicholas Brody is a character in Homeland [2]. So the final answer is SUPPORTS.   
[Question]:"Brad Wilk helped co-found Rage in 1962. (SUPPORTS or REFUTES)?" [Query 1]: Did Brad Wilk co-found Rage? [Answer 1]: Yes [Query 2]: Did Brad Wilk co-found Rage in 1962? [Answer 2]: No, Rage was founded in 1991 [Final Content]: Brad Wilk did co-found Rage [1], but not in 1962 [2]. So the final answer is REFUTES.   
[Question]:"Aristotle spent time in Athens. (SUPPORTS or REFUTES)?" [Query 1]: Who is Aristotle? [Answer 1]: Aristotle was a Greek philosopher. [Query 2]: Did Aristotle spend time in Athens? [Answer 2]: Yes, Aristotle studied and taught at the Academy in Athens for 20 years. [Final Content]: Aristotle was a Greek philosopher who studied and taught at the Academy in Athens for 20 years [2]. So the final answer is SUPPORTS.   
[Question]:Telemundo is an English-language television network. (SUPPORTS or REFUTES)?" [Query 1]: What is Telemundo? [Answer 1]: Telemundo is a television network. [Query 2]: Is Telemundo an English-language television network? [Answer 2]: No, Telemundo is a Spanish-language television network. [Final Content]: Telemundo is a television network [1], but it is not an English-language television network [2]. So the final answer is REFUTES.
```

Figure 9: Prompt for generating Chain-of-Query at the first round on FEVER (in the setting with information retrieval).

Recall and Precision of judging whether the passage can answer the question) on the mixed open-domain QA datasets (NQ, TriviaQA, WebQ, and TREC) after each value change. We find that when the confidence threshold is 1.5, the highest F1-score can be achieved so we set the confidence threshold as 1.5. As for the ROUGE threshold  $(\alpha)$ , we determine this value by manually observing the ROUGE relationship between the generated text and the ground truth in the few examples in in-context learning. Our further experiments in Table 7 show that when the value range of ROUGE threshold is between 0.3 and 0.5, the performance change on ELI5 is not obvious.

A.3.2 Number of Examples in Prompt. We show the number of examples in prompt used for in-context learning on different datasets (Table 8). Our method (SearChain) achieves the best performance with fewer learning examples than competitive baselines.

A.3.3 Prompts in Experiment. We show the prompt used in experiment on different datasets in Figure  $8\sim 12$

$^{5}$ https://lmsys.org/blog/2023-03-30-vicuna/  
<sup>6</sup>https://huggingface.co/lmsys/vicuna-13b-delta-v1.1/tree/main

# Footnotes:

Page 0: *Corresponding author 
Page 4: 1Retrieve documents and provide them to LLM in a prompt. 2Perform ToolFormer on gpt-3.5-turbo via in-context learning. 
Page 5: 3https://openai.com/api/ 
Page 9: 4https://www.bing.com/new 
